If you are
really serious, if your strength and
muscularity is right at the top of your
priority list of the things that you're
working on like, you know, let's say
you're starting a business or you're
working really hard at your company or
you just started a relationship and
you're putting a lot of energy into
that. Make sure that she knows you're a
nice guy, which means you need to pay
attention to her. So,
all those things like think about all
the things in your life.
If everything you're working on, if you
make a list and you rank what's more
important, if your physical performance
is like, you know, the top three
on that list,
then you might want to look at the
Westside program.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hi, my name is John Jaquish. I'm a
doctor of biomedical engineering, which
gives me a unique perspective on lots of
different things. Today, I want to talk
about which of the X3 programs is the
one you should be doing. So,
it really depends on a couple of
questions. We have three programs. The
initial one, which I developed when I
launched the product. This one is a very
high-intensity approach. It would be
you'd probably say it's a little bit
closer to like maybe a Mike Mentzer
Arthur Jones type programming, but of
course I benefited from a lot more
research than those guys did. So, like
for example, for a period of time
Mike Mentzer said a really developed
person should wait 2 weeks between load
exposures of a muscle. Well, we found
out later on that that was
maybe a little much. Maybe like 3 or 4
days is is really what you should be
waiting between. So, I put together this
sort of updated
high-intensity programming and each set
with X3 was taken to multiple points of
fatigue with diminishing range. So, what
I mean by that is like you start by
doing full reps and it's heaviest out
here and then a all of a sudden you
can't get to the top anymore. So, your
reps are getting shorter and they get
shorter and shorter and shorter until
you basically just can't move. So,
multiple points of momentary muscular
failure all in one set all with a fresh
muscle that's full of glycogen,
incredible stimulus. This was an awesome
program, still is, and it's the one that
is used the most. Now, after the first 2
years of doing that, there was a lot of
talk about high-volume training.
And so, the the questions were being
asked, well, what if we used volume type
approaches
with variable resistance, would that
lead to better gains? Well, it's a great
question and of course this was a couple
years ago and there's very little
literature on using variable resistance
in a more volume style program. So, I
had to create one. I worked a little bit
with Matt Wenning, who is let's see, he
for a period of time he had the
strongest squat in the world. He's a
world record holder in the 300-lb weight
class. He had a 1200-lb squat. You know,
there are there are times where in in in
cycles of his training that there would
be higher volume periods. It went great
and of course the goal was higher
volume. Now, Matt Wenning is also
Westside Barbell alumni. So, he's not a
high-volume type guy, but of course what
I was looking for
was individuals
to contribute to this or an individual
to contribute to this which really had
the experience of taking people from
baseline to high performance and Matt's
got an incredible resume of dealing with
military, dealing with NFL, dealing with
he's he's got great programs with I
think firefighters, like groups of
firefighters all over the Midwest where
he's built programming for them using
variable resistance
to
become better firefighters. You know,
obviously if you're a stronger
firefighter, you can carry more people,
pull more hose. You can
boy, the double entendre there. The
effort behind the volume program was
really just creating something that was
going along with what the talk track was
at the time. Now, high volume has
definitely fallen out of favor in the
last like year or two and I can tell you
why. It's because it's really not an
optimal approach. The original
programming was much better, but I came
to this conclusion when I worked with
Craig Bongelli, who's head of education
at Westside Barbell. The standard
Westside Barbell programming
is way closer to what I had first done,
very high intensity. Like the Westside
Barbell philosophy is
get as much load
through the body
as possible when the body is optimized.
Like you you don't want to be trying for
your strength records when you're tired
because that's when form falls apart.
That's when you, you know, jerk the
weight instead of lift the weight and
injuries. That's where that comes from.
So, we have two high-intensity programs,
the original one and the Westside
Barbell and the high volume's in the
middle. So, which one do you pick? Well,
first of all, the original program and
the and the high volume program are free
and the Westside Barbell is it's right
under $15 a month. So, I think if you if
you don't mind going very high intensity
and you want to save time, you want the
best results with the minimum amount of
time, the first program. That's the one
you want to do, the original. If you
have trouble going to all-out fatigue.
Now, I say a lot of thumbs down stuff
about high-volume approaches. However,
some people really don't like to train
all out and they want to do a bunch of
sets where they they get a pump, they
go, okay, yeah, I mean I'm I'm I'm in
the middle of it. I'm going to do five
sets of this and five sets of this other
thing, five sets of this other thing.
You can certainly do that. Like there is
validity to it. I personally don't like
it. I think it's inefficient and
especially it's brutal on your time. But
if you prefer doing that, we have all
the instructions for you. If you want to
do the high volume, do the high volume.
We have it for you. I'm not deleting it
just because I don't think it's the most
optimal approach because every you know,
everyone's different. People have
different preferences. Like I I love the
all-out training. It's just it's more
how my my mind works. I was a sprinter
in high school. That probably paints a
picture for you. If you were if you ran
cross country in high school, you may
have liked the volume
approach better because you're kind of
wired for that. So, I I do want to say I
I certainly have a preference, but I
also don't want to discourage people who
just don't like the all-out approach.
There is another option.
Who should do Westside Barbell? The
Westside Barbell program, again, it has
an expense tied to it and I don't like
people spending money if they don't need
to spend money. So, I'd rather you save
your money. But if you are
really serious, if your strength and
muscularity is right at the top of your
priority list of the things that you're
working on like, you know, let's say
you're starting a business or you're
working really hard at your company or
you just started a relationship and
you're putting a lot of energy into
that. Make sure that she knows you're a
nice guy, which means you need to pay
attention to her. So, all those things
like think about all the things in your
life.
If everything you're working on, if you
make a list and you rank what's more
important, if your physical performance
is like, you know, the top three
on that list,
then you might want to look at the
Westside program
because these are three-week cycles
different approaches and you rotate.
Like like sometimes you're training for
explosiveness, sometimes you're training
really low repetitions, just super
strength activation. In fact, we make
people sign an extra disclaimer
saying in general use of the X3 product,
we want you to shoot for 15 repetitions
minimum. Well, Westside goes way lower
than that, which means the weight is way
higher and there's some added risk
there. So, you got to keep that in mind.
So again, the Westside program, if you
are just super serious and super excited
about your physical development,
I hope this helps. Ask questions in the
comments because I a lot of the
questions are going to be highly
personalized to you. Ask those questions
in the comments, we'll get them all
answered. If this video helped you, I
want you to subscribe and follow. I'm
going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights, we've got the answer for you.
>> [music]